# Sparkify: Postgres dataload Project

This project is part of Udacity Data Engineering Nanodegree to create a star schema database model in Postgresql and implement the etl procedure using Python.

## Available Data

- Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song.

- Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by an event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month. 

## Project Files

- test.ipynb 
Displays the first few rows of each table to check the database.
- create_tables.py 
Drops and creates the tables. Run this file to reset the tables before running ETL scripts.
- etl.ipynb 
Reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
- etl.py 
Reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into tables. This is created out based on the work in the ETL notebook.
- sql_queries.py 
Contains all sql queries used for project, and is imported into the last three files above.
- README.md 
Provides discussion on the project.

## Database

The database is implemented in Postgresql, i sparkifydb database. Below are the tables in the project

### Fact Table
- songplays 
Records log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
(songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent)

### Dimension Tables
- users 
Users in the app
(user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level)
- songs
Songs in music database
(song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration)
- artists
Artists in music database
(artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude)
- time 
Timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
(start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday)

